Early Life of Rasulullah

not so fortunate. She saw Abdul Muttalib with an infant in his arms and took pity on the child who had been rejected by the other women. She and her husband took the infant Muhammad back to the desert. Haleemah was happy she was not returning empty-handed.

Haleemah and her husband, Harith bin Abdul Uzzah, both belonged to the tribe of Sa'd bin Bakr bin Hawazen. Their children became the Prophet's foster brothers and sisters. Their names were Abdullah, Anisa, and Judhama, who was better known as Shayma. Judhama also nursed the Prophet ﷺ.

Haleemah's house is unexpectedly blessed

Haleemah and her husband found their lives changed the moment they took Muhammad home. They had traveled to Makkah on a frail female donkey that could barely keep up with their caravan. On the return journey, however, as Haleemah rode with the infant in her arms, the same animal moved so swiftly that it left the caravan behind.

While Muhammad ﷺ stayed with Haleemah's family, the house overflowed with blessings. Haleemah herself narrated that she brought Muhammad ﷺ to her home during a drought. Her she-camel would not give a drop of milk. Haleemah's child would cry the whole night out of hunger. With the child so distraught, Haleemah and Harith found it hard to sleep at night.

Things changed, however, when Haleemah brought Muhammad ﷺ home and placed him on her lap. Her breasts overflowed with milk so that both Muhammad and her own child drank their fill of milk and fell fast asleep.

When Harith went to the she-camel, he was amazed at what he saw. The she-camel's udders were full of milk and ready to overflow. It gave so much milk that Haleemah's family was able to sleep that night on full stomachs.

Haleemah's household suddenly appeared to be untouched by the drought, although they lived in Dayar Banu Sa'd, the most drought-stricken spot in the region. The family's goats would return from grazing with their stomachs full of grass and their udders bursting with

WHEN THE MOON 23 SPLIT